# Liquidity Providers

#### **What does it mean to provide liquidity?**

Providing liquidity on THORChain creates an opportunity for holders of stagnant assets (e.g. BTC, ETH, BNB) to earn a return or yield on their asset. Traditionally, with a CEX or 0x style exchange, trades require an order book of bids/asks (buys/sells) at a specific price, because if an investor wants to trade one asset for another, you need a buyer and a seller. Decentralised exchanges like UniSwap and THORChain utilise liquidity pools to provide more fluid access to trades. Liquidity pools are the way decentralised exchanges maintain a reservoir of assets, enabling buyers and sellers to exchange assets on demand. Liquidity Providers are therefore those network participants who deposit their assets into liquidity pools in exchange for a share of the trading fees generated by the trading of buyers and sellers.

#### **What assets can you swap and provide liquidity for?**&#x20;

* Current Chains — BTC, ETH, LTC, BNB, BCH, Cosmos, AVAX
* Tokens such as: ERC-20 (USDT and SUSHI), BEP2 (BUSD and BTCB).
* See full list at https://viewblock.io/thorchain/pools or https://thorchain.net/#/pools

#### **Can I stake RUNE?**&#x20;

Not quite. “Providing liquidity” in THORChain is not the same thing as staking because even if you provide only 1 asset (asymmetrically add), THORChain will automatically be separated into 2 equal parts: 50% Assets and 50% Rune. You will always have exposure to both assets.

#### **Is there a lockup period if I provide Liquidity?**

There is no minimum or maximum time or amount. Join and leave whenever you wish. There is however a required confirmation time before THORChain credits you with liquidity when adding or swapping to protect against Reorgs. Wait time is based on:

* Total Asset amount (in a specific block of a specific blockchain)
* Per block reward of the chain
* Block time Required confirmations = Total Asset Amount (in a specific block of a specific blockchain) divided by the chain's per block reward Then that is multiplied by block time to get the approx "wait time". See [Confirmation-Counting](broken-reference).&#x20;

Regarding ILP, Liquidity Providers will receive 100% IL protection after they have been in the pool for 100 days, getting 1% ILP coverage for each day in the pool - but the liquidity can be withdrawn at any time.

➜ [THORChain - Wait Times and Fees Explained!](https://youtu.be/XAdaEXO-Ofg) video

#### **Will I have Impermanent Loss Protection if I provide liquidity in THORChain?**&#x20;

No. Liquidity Providers will receive 100% IL protection has ended on THORChain in preference for [Savers](https://medium.com/thorchain/thorchain-savers-vaults-fc3f086b4057).&#x20;

### **Asymmetrical / Symmetrical FAQs**

#### Can I withdraw LP symmetrically after depositing an asset asymmetrically?&#x20;

No. You cannot withdraw symmetrically. You can withdraw only asymmetrically for LP you deposited asymmetrically.&#x20;

#### I entered asymmetrically but received less than anticipated.

Yes, because when you pool asymmetrically your asset is swapped into 50% rune and 50% asset. When swapping you are subject to slippage and fees. There are 2 types charged on asymmetrical deposits/withdrawals:

1. The on-chain deposit transaction fee (inbound tx)
2. The liquidity fee as a function of slip

Upon withdrawal, there will also be a transaction fee (outbound tx)&#x20;

**Are there slippage fees for symmetrical deposits?**&#x20;

No, there is only the deposit transaction fee.&#x20;

#### What ways can I withdraw my asymmetrical deposit?&#x20;

If you deposit asymmetrically you can ONLY withdraw asymmetrically.&#x20;

#### What ways can I withdraw my symmetrical deposit?&#x20;

You can withdraw your symmetrical deposit both asymmetrically and symmetrically.&#x20;

**Will all ERC20 and BEP2 assets be supported and listed on THORChain by default?**

No. Only short tail assets with high MarketCap, good velocity and economic activity would have chances to win liquidity competition to get listed. Then the community will vote.&#x20;

➜ See [Governance](../how-it-works/governance.md#chain-listing-delisting).&#x20;

➜ [Latest ERC20 Tokens List ](https://gitlab.com/thorchain/thornode/-/blob/develop/bifrost/pkg/chainclients/ethereum/token\_list.json)



